Abstract
Global disease is one of the main causes of death in modern society. In recent years, significant progress has been made in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases caused by diseases. It has been collected. has raised In this research, machine and fuzzy logic methods are used to predict heart diseases. The proposed method of ST machine design methods algorithm includes nearest neighbor, neural network, support vector machine, forest and XGBOO algorithm based on fuzzy logic CHI-FRCBS. Also, in order to check and compare the methods, the UCL repository data set including the information of 323 people with 13 characteristics was used. The evaluation indices in this system are accuracy, specificity, specificity, ROC, Pearson correlation diagram, F1, and characteristic feature. The obtained results show that the XGB algorithm with 0.75 non-standard F1 is higher than other models. It is higher than other models. This study showed the role of the method of selecting specific features and multiple evaluation criteria in the diagnosis of coronary disease by fuzzy algorithm machine methods.
Keywords: data mining algorithms, fuzzy algorithm, machine, heart disease.
Discussion
Heart disease is one of the main causes of death in the world and the most common type of heart disease is coronary artery disease, which affects the blood flow to the heart and causes a heart attack. Diagnosing heart disease is a very complicated task in medical science. The medical industry is faced with a very large amount of data, which makes us need strong data analysis tools to extract useful information from them. The purpose of data mining is to extract knowledge from a large amount of data. Methods based on artificial intelligence, machine learning, and fuzzy logic using data mining work much better in cases where the data is incomplete or inconsistent with each other, because in these cases, the missing data is based on the pattern in the data. It is restored. Data preparation from the UCL database and from three datasets Cleveland, Hungary, Long Beach, which has 13 features such as blood pressure, cholesterol, fasting blood sugar, chest pain, and of these 5 numerical features, 6 nominal features, 2 binary features . Then, based on the various functions available in Python, data pre-processing steps were performed, and in the first step, machine learning algorithms were used, and in the second step, fuzzy logic was used using the CHI-FRBCS Algorithm. After the investigations, the machine learning algorithms were Except for one case, ANN algorithm has more accuracy than other algorithms. Finally, the XGB algorithm with 0.76 and the ANN algorithm with 0.75 have higher F1 values than other models. The Chi-FRBCS algorithm has a sensitivity of 0.95 and recall of 0.95 compared to other algorithms and the ANN model with a ROC diagram of 0.76 and accuracy of 0.63. It is higher than other models.
